# Spice-Mixologist

The first class I created was the SpiceMix class. The purpose of this class is to store a given char array of spices, which is initialised at the start of the class. The char array is initialised at the start of the class and, as it is assumed that only arrays with length 5 are inputted, no length is assigned to this array. I have chosen to use a char array here as it seems best suited to store a collection of spices as each spice is represented as a character This class contains three methods. The first method is the SpiceMix() constructor which takes the given Char array of spices and assigns it as an attribute to the object. The second method is the getSpice method which takes an integer parameter i and  returns the collection of spices at index i. The third method is the toString method which returns as string representation of all the spices. It implements a for loop to iterate over each collection of spices and add them to the string a. In order to ensure the correct format is kept, as well as ensuring there are no extra trailing spaces, an if statement is used. Each iteration of the for loop adds the spice at index i to this for loop.


The second class I created was the Attempt Class. The purpose of this class is to store an attempt made by a user and check whether or not it is correct against the solution. I have implemented 6 methods in this class and initiated two SpiceMix variables, suggestion and solution. The suggestion variable stores the user inputted SpiceMix, while the solution stores the SpiceMix Solution. The first method used is the public Attempt method constructor which assigns the variables suggestion and solution as attributes. The second method is getSpiceMix which returns the suggested SpiceMix, or the user’s input. The purpose of the third method getNumGood is to return how many spices are used in the correct measurements. It uses a for loop to iterate between each spice in the solution and the suggestion and compares the two to see if the suggested spice is correct. If so, the count variable is incremented. The integer count is returned at the end to display how many spices were guessed in the correct measurement. The purpose of the getNumWrongQuantity method  is similar to the getNumGood method however it checks how many correct spices there are, but in the wrong quantity.This is done through the use of a 2d for loop, the outer loop using a char from the suggested recipe and the inner loop comparing this value to all the values in the solution, if there is a match, the counter is incremented. The fourth method is the isCorrect method which is used for checking if all the spices are correct and in the quantity. This is done by using the getNumGood method and checking if it is equal to 5. If this is correct, true is returned, otherwise false is returned. The last method is the toString method which returns a string representation of the attempt, displaying their errors using the getNumGood and getNumWrongQuantity methods. 

The next two classes(Node,Linked List) were made to implement a Linked List that was used to store all previous attempts. The Node class represents each element in a linked list. Each node is made up of an attempt, and points to its next element. In the node class I initialized both these variables with their corresponding values.I also included a constructor which set these variables as attributes to the node. Lastly, I included getters which were used later on in the program. The LinkedList class represents the linked list. It contains the head of the list, as well as a constructor that sets the head to null. In addition to this, I have included an addAttempt method which takes an attempt as a parameter. It creates a new Node with the given attempt. If there are no pre-existing nodes, the head is created with the next parameter being null, otherwise the next is set as the current head. Another method that has been included is the toString method which returns a string representation of the linked lists. The method uses a while loop and a cursor to iterate over the List Nodes and append their payloads to a string. This string is returned.

Another class I created was the SpiceMixGame class. The purpose of this class is to allow the user to play the game. I used two constructors in this class, a random generated solution constructor and a given solution constructor. The random solution generator creates an empty char array with length 5. This is filled using a for loop which assigns each index a random spice, using the imported random class. Lastly, this is set as the solution as an attribute. The given solution constructor assigns the solution to be a given solution by the user. Another method used in this class is the attemptSpiceMix method. This method uses a given spice mix and adds it to the linked list by creating a new attempt using the spice mix and the solution. It returns whether or not this attempt was correct using the isCorrect method. The last two methods getPreviousAttempts and getSolution are getters that return their information respectively. 
